Drift is the quiet failure mode of AI-written code — locally right, globally wrong.
MetaObjects turns it into a build error.
This is meta verify.
Here's one in action.
An agent edited a generated file, and one command caught it — exit one, before it could ship.
Let me show you how this works across all three surfaces — your code, your prompts, and your schema.
Meta verify checks one thing: does everything still agree with the model?
It does it across three surfaces — your code, your prompts, and your database schema.
Drift on any of them fails the build.
Before we run it, here's that one model.
The Task entity carries its validators right on the fields — that drives the code, and its source drives the schema.
The prompt has a typed payload and a template — that's the third surface.
And look at the references between them: the payload extends a real Task field, and the template points at a real payload.
Those are enforced — rename or delete the target, and the model won't even load.
So the model can't drift against itself.
Surface one: your code.
Verify regenerates from the model and compares it to what's committed.
The moment an agent hand-edits a generated file, it no longer matches — drift, exit one.
Surface two: your prompts.
Every variable in a prompt template has to exist on its typed payload.
Reference a field that isn't there — say, after a rename — and the build fails, instead of the prompt quietly degrading.
Surface three: your schema.
Verify diffs the model against your live database.
A column that drifted out of band — dropped, renamed, or added by hand — gets caught before it reaches production.
When everything's in sync, one command says so: code, prompts, and schema all agree with the model.
Put that one line in your C I, and drift can't merge.
A pull request that diverges from the model fails the check — so an agent has to change the model first, then regenerate.
The model stays the source of truth.
That's the whole idea.
AI code is locally coherent and globally divergent — drift you can't see by reading one file.
Meta verify checks three surfaces against one model, and any mismatch is exit one.
The AI writes the code; the model keeps it honest.
Add meta verify to your build, and make drift a compile error.
This is part of the MetaObjects series — more at metaobjects dot dev.
Thanks for watching.